hello everyone so today I'm going to be
talking about my organization and time
management tips for students because I'm
a student and I'm kind of organized
maybe I think hopefully yeah today I'm
just going to talk about what I do to
stay organized at uni and it works for
me
like I managed to fit in all my academic
work making YouTube videos social
activities rowing so society stuff I
managed to fill it all in
using these organization time management
techniques so you know I've tried them
I've tested them I can guarantee you
they work so University is really full
on there is a lot to be doing and to fit
into the day everyone's always like you
can choose to out of academic work
social life and sleep and you can't have
all three but I need to tell you that
it's possible to have all three keep on
watching and yeah hopefully this video
is useful okay first big thing is to
keep a calendar diary I jot down any
events that I'm supposed to going to
lectures supervisions rowing outings
family visits people's birthdays exam
dates fun times
meetings with academics appointments and
deadlines as well for work all goes in
the diary I make sure I look at it every
day I use every day I carry it around
everywhere with me so that's why I like
a nice small one a nice light one
because it literally stays in my bag
wherever I go now I know a lot of people
actually do this on their phones these
days so if you're more tech-savvy just
use the calendar app on your phone I
guess and you can put it all on there
but for me personally I like to write it
down the old-fashioned way I am NOT a
forgetful person but I would have to be
super human to remember everything I've
got on without a diary I don't know how
people think they can just remember
things everyone always goes I don't need
to write down that deadline I'm gonna
remember that deadline that my
supervisor gave me and then a few days
later who are they messaging to ask for
the deadline and for the set work me
even like what the work is jordyn ever
detail of the work your set a lot of
people always message me like what does
a supervisor ask again did they ask for
the first five questions or for the
first ten questions I'm like why don't
you write down look at me throwing shade
today no offense to any of these people
I just don't understand how people don't
write things down I don't understand
here's a week from March from this year
it was quite a busy week as you can see
but I just like my calendar with like a
week to view or a double-page look I've
written a to hand in my fizz B work I've
written where I've got examples classes
I've written where I've got an interview
crew dinner supervisions bumps that's a
set of rowing races this is just kind of
my life in a book so yeah make sure you
make notes of any deadlines and work set
sounds obvious but you'd be surprised at
the number of people who don't okay next
thing I'd recommend is knowing your
timetable inside out and just getting
into a routine every week when I say
routine I don't just mean all your
academic lectures and whatnot because
hopefully you are going to be going to
those at the same time each week but
also your meal times your bedtimes once
you do your laundry each week you want a
consistent routine that you follow each
week when you repeat something enough
times it sticks and it will make sure
you don't forget important things
I'm not saying stick to whatever you do
in the first week and you must do the
same thing forever more and never
straight from it I'm saying once you
find a routine that works why change set
yourself a goal of how many hours you
want to work for each day everyone
always asks me how many hours do I work
how many hours do I need to work to get
top grades I don't have the magic answer
for you it's going to vary from person
to person the number of allergies put in
is gonna depend on what course you're
studying how easy is it for you to pick
things up quickly like how naturally
talented are you at the course I'd say
personally for a normal week I'd want to
be working between 6 & 8 hours a day but
yeah choose your number of hours you
want to work for each day set that as
your goal and try and stick to it
you can download apps like forest or are
you
flora which is the free version and
using these apps you can set x on your
phone and it looks your at your phone
and you can also time how long you've
been studying for but also in general
setting a timer so you can really keep
track of how many hours you're working
each day is really helpful now if you've
watched even a few of my videos before
you'll know I'm a big fan of to-do lists
you can either make a to-do list on
paper so I like to get these pads like
they look pretty I get mine from Paper
Chase
wilco as a cheap option or even just use
a standard post-it note or pad of paper
and list the stuff you've got to do each
day or you can use your phone I actually
quite like using the Notes app on iPhone
and law or I'm sure that's equivalent on
Android phones and in particular I make
my to-do lists the night before the day
that I want to do them before I go to
bed each night I normally like to sit
down and think what do I need to get
done tomorrow and then it makes it easy
because I wake up in the morning have a
quick glance at my to-do list and I'm
like right that's what I'm doing today
the day is set up for me when making my
to-do lists I also want to be as
realistic as possible but I also want to
challenge myself so you know there's a
balance isn't there I write down enough
stuff to keep myself busy but not so
much that I just won't get it all done
the aim for me is to actually complete
everything on my to-do list rather than
write eight to long to-do list that I
don't complete because then what's the
point of having the list anyway I think
finding that balance maybe takes time
and experience so monitor how much you
get done each day and eventually you
will get to know what's a realistic
amount of work for you to get done each
day another good tip is to add times to
your to-do list I think it's easier to
tell whether individual tasks are doable
in an hour compared to a whole lump of
tasks is that doable in 8 hours it's
harder to tell and it maybe goes without
saying that when making your to-do list
you need to prioritize I'm prioritizing
it's quite easy to do you just look at
your tasks and think when's my nearest
deadline what essentially needs to be
done first and you
do that as one of your first activities
look through your tasks and think what
is most important to me to get done and
schedule your breaks in as well don't
just chat with your academic work make
sure your scheduling in your social time
with friends and also be aware of the
chunks of time that you've already got
set aside for things like lectures and
societies and clubs which don't change
every week make sure you're fitting
stuff in around them I would recommend
saying lots of alarms if you have an
important thing you need to be up for in
the morning I would recommend setting
lots of reminders for yourself for any
important tasks pin up notices if you
have a pin board find somewhere where
you can put a note to yourself to remind
yourself to do stuff leave post-it notes
around your room ask friends to remind
you if you have important tasks but of
course you don't want to be forgetting
the most important things in your day
for example if you have an exam or a
mock exam you probably don't want to
miss that so make sure you don't miss it
set so many reminders for yourself that
you can possibly forget it I don't know
sometimes there are high priority tasks
that you don't want to forget go to all
lengths to make sure you don't give it a
massive star in your diary I like to set
time aside for my admin tasks each day
it might only take me 10 15 minutes just
to check my emails reply to any of
necessary and file away all my papers
from the day if you don't set this time
aside for admin tasks each day it just
builds and builds and builds until it's
a massive mammoth task what you have to
do at the weekend and it's just not
worth getting to that point take it from
me I have experience I think a key thing
that keeps me organized in my studies is
how I file all my lecture notes and my
supervision work my particular system is
that I keep plastic folders in my bag
and I have one for each module that I'm
taking out sometimes in my bag with the
current work for that module in it so it
would be the current set of lecture
notes that I was working on and the
current problem cell I've been set to
supervisions and then for each module I
also had a lever arch file these can fit
a lot of papers in this is actually one
of my own a level
but I use these at university all the
time and all the past lecture notes for
my modules go into my lever arch files
so yeah in my filing session typically
I'm taking stuff out of here that I no
longer need day-to-day hole punching it
putting it in my leech file and then I
also like to use stickers as my coding
system for when a piece of work is fully
complete so oh stick a sticker in the
top right hand corner if it's perfectly
done
ticks around no more work to do on it
but if a piece of work doesn't have to
stick or I know that I need to review it
and come back to it another thing I do
in the evenings is pack my bag the night
before for the next day it is way too
easy to forget lecture notes or a pen
often what I need in my university bag
doesn't change too much from day to day
so I like to mostly keep it untouched
but it's normally a case of swapping
over folders packing my stuff up from my
desk and putting it back in my bag
because normally I'll be doing work in
the evening and I need to get it back
into my bag to take over to the library
when I'm going to lectures I struggle to
get up in the mornings and I normally
sleep in for as long as I can possibly
get away with I leave no time to
actually review what's in my bag I
literally just sling it over my shoulder
and hope for the best
I've got everything so yeah pack it the
night before kids and also I say this
quite a lot but don't leave assignments
til the day before they do yes I have
done this in the past don't feel it my
example it's a bad idea it can cause a
lot of stress it leaves you tempted to
stay up really really late to get work
done if you just set yourself your own
fake deadline like two days before it's
due it allows time for stuff to go wrong
with the assignment for example say my
maths work is due on Friday I'm going to
pretend that it's 2:00 on Thursday so
that by Wednesday evening I'm pretty
much finishing it and if it does come to
Wednesday evening and I'm like this Maps
assignment was impossible I can't do it
I then have an extra day to seek the
help I need before I actually need to
submit it otherwise it's all just
leaving it a bit too late ok and that's
it I hope I was somewhat
in this video I feel like oh just
blurting everything I do it you guys but
yeah that's how I stay as organized as
possible
I think the key things are keep a diary
write to-do lists that's it for today's
video hope it's been helpful comment
down below if you have your own tips for
time management and organization because
I'd love to hear them personally I'm
sure other people in the comments will
love reading them because a lot of us
are students here so help everyone out
comment down below your tips and I just
want to jump in and say a massive thank
you to Skillshare for sponsoring this
video it's an online learning community
for creators there's thousands of
classes on there in so many different
areas productivity design business
whether you just want to learn a new
skill as a hobby or further your career
there's so much on Skillshare and it's
such an easy way to just keep yourself
thinking and learning most recently I've
been doing a course on iPhone photo
editing and it's so cool how much you
can do with just your phone you don't
need any fancy equipment this course has
all the tips and tricks you need and the
teacher of this particular class is a
professional travel and lifestyle
photographer so they know exactly what
they're talking about and yeah you can
get premium memberships which give you
unlimited access to all the classes and
communities Skillshare is actually
giving away a free unlimited access
trial to my subscribers who click the
link in the description box below and
after that it's only around ten dollars
per month so yeah head to the link in
the description to find out more skill
shares online classes really are a great
way to make twenty twenty that year
where you explore some new skills deepen
some existing passions and just get lost
in creativity so thank you again to
Skillshare for sponsoring this video and
we'll head back to Page in the studio
subscribe to my channel if you're new
here I make lots of university content
hit the notification bell then you know
when I upload give the video a like if
you enjoyed it follow me over on my
Instagram I'll see you soon with another
video guys
[Music]
you